Good morning.
I'm Ian Baird, label engineer for UIKit.
And today I'm going to talk to you
about advanced attributed strings
for iOS or how to achieve desktop
class effects on a mobile device.
Let's get started.
Today we're going to
talk about three things.
The first one is advanced attributes.
If you attended yesterday's introduction
to attributed strings for iOS talk,
you learned about some
of the basic attributes.
and today we're going to talk about more,
of course.
Next, we're going to talk about how to
employ some of those attributes along
with attributed strings to achieve
awesome text effects for your app.
And then we're going to talk a little bit
about the Extended String Drawing API,
or more specifically,
NSStringDrawingContext and
NSStringDrawingOptions.
So, let's get started.
Advanced Attributes.
Yesterday,
Aki talked about some of the common
attributes you would use when
customizing an attributed string.
I believe the first attribute he
talked about was NSFontAttributeName.
As you can see,
we've changed our example text
from using the system default font,
which in this case was Helvetica Noia,
to Heffler text using
the NSFontAttributeName.
also talked about how you could customize
the color that we rendered the text in
using NS foreground color attribute name.
We talked about NS paragraph
style attribute name and
some of the properties.
I'll call out a couple right now.
The first one we talked about was...
The alignment property,
which allows you to affect the alignment
that we use to render the text.
In this case, we've gone from center
aligned to left aligned.
Next,
we talked about the line break mode,
which allows you to affect
truncation and word wrapping.
We have allowed the text to
word wrap in this case using
NS paragraph style line break mode.
So let's dive in.
The first advanced attribute I want
to talk to you about today is,
in my opinion, one of the coolest.
It allows you to apply an outline to
the glyphs we use to strike your text.
So let's talk a bit about
NSStrokeColorAttributeName
and its partner,
NSStrokeWithAttributeName.
You can use them to achieve really
cool effects in your app like this.
This was done by setting NS foreground
color attribute name to yellow,
which filled the glyphs
with a yellow color,
while setting NS stroke color
attribute name to black.
Now, there are a few points to remember
about NSStroke with attribute name.
We're going to go through them.
If you supply a positive width,
you're only going to get
an outline on your glyph.
If you supply a negative width,
we're going to stroke
and fill your glyph.
And if you don't supply a value,
if you leave it nil,
you're only going to get a filled glyph.
We're not actually going
to outline the glyph.
Another really cool attribute
that I'd like to talk to you about
today is NSShadowAttributeName.
This is also new in iOS 6.
It allows you to do cool things
like apply a drop shadow to
some or all of your text.
You can see what this has
done to the text here.
It makes it appear to lift off the page,
which is really, really cool.
So how did we do this?
Well,
we brought over NSShadow from Mac OS.
If you've ever used an
eyeshadow on Mac OS,
you know that it can
participate in drawing,
and you can set it on a graphics
context to set up a shadow.
This is not the case on iOS.
iOS uses a declarative model.
So it's only used with
attributed strings.
We set up the shadow for you.
We interpret the value.
So it's only a value class on iOS.
But there are some really cool
customizations you can do.
The first one being the shadow color.
You can change the color we
use to render the shadow.
Next, you can change the shadow offset by
supplying a CG size to the shadow offset
property of the NSShadow instance.
And finally,
you can change the shadow blur radius.
Notice we've supplied a larger
value to shadow blur radius,
which has caused the
shadow to appear to soften.
Now, I know this is a big one for me
and the designers in the crowd.
In iOS 6,
we now support proper text kerning.
I know we did it before in Cortex,
but now we've brought it up to the
level of UIKit and attributed string.
This is done with NSKern attribute name.
As you can see here in our example,
we have changed our run
of text to TwinVauses.
And the reason we've done this is
because it highlights a problem that
you can currently see in the system.
Notice that the words "twin" and
"vauses" appear to have split
off their beginning characters.
The word "t" does not appear to be
attached to "twin" and "v" does not
appear to be attached to "vauses." Well,
we can fix this by turning
on auto-kerning like this.
Notice the "t" and the "w"
have properly hugged together,
and we fixed the issue of an improper
distribution of horizontal space.
So let's talk a bit more about
some of the values you can
supply to NSCurrentAttributeName.
Now, it's important to remember that
kerning will vary from font to font.
For example,
Heffler text may define kerning pairs
which are not present in Helvetic Innoi.
You can enable auto-kerning by not
supplying a value or using null.
You can disable kerning by supplying the
zero value to NSKern attribute name if
you need to turn it off for some reason,
such as to match WebKit rendering.
and any other value is going
to adjust the kerning by the
specified number of points.
In our example,
we've set up an auto-kerned run of text,
the big red dog.
Let's see what happens when
we supply a positive value.
Notice that the text has loosened.
Let's tighten it up.
We use a negative value
to tighten the text.
That's NS Kern attribute name.
Another really cool attribute we have
in iOS 6 makes its way to us from
the world of classical typography.
In the type case,
you may have had one or more glyphs
stacked together that when looked at
did not appear to be naturally balanced.
For example, FI.
Now in iOS 6,
you can turn on default ligatures and
will start to substitute these two
glyphs with their ligature glyphs.
For example, FI is substituted by
the FI ligature glyph.
We have FF, FL,
now we're getting cool here, FFI.
and for what I like to term
the flying buttress effect,
we have the FFL ligature.
Cool, huh?
So I've talked a bit about
some of the beautiful,
very designy sort of attributes,
and now I want to talk about one that
I consider to be a bit more utilitarian,
NSBackgroundColorAttributeName.
You may think it's redundant
since you can specify the
background color of a label,
you could always use a UI rect fill
to color the bounds of this app.
But that's not the case.
Imagine if you want to
achieve a selection effect.
You want to get the color to
wrap very closely to the text.
Well, one way we could achieve this is
to supply a light blue color to
NSBackgroundColorAttributeName,
which will very nicely highlight
along the lines of text.
Sometimes it is advantageous to be able
to underline all or some of your text,
and you're going to use NS_style
attribute name to achieve this.
Next, another somewhat useful -- I hate
to call anything somewhat useful,
but it's good to have it when you need
it sort of attribute in your grab bag of
tools is NSStrikeThruStyleAttributeName.
Pretend I have a friend named Kyle,
and we're talking about his dog here,
Landis.
And this dog is incredibly lazy,
but I've offended him by putting
this out here in front of all of you.
And I want to show him that I have
redacted this text from the document.
Well, I would achieve this using
NSStrikeThruStyleAttributeName.
Notice how the text is redacted.
We used NSForegroundColorAttributeName
to also turn this little run of text red.
So now he's not mad at me.
So Aki talked yesterday
about NS paragraph style and
a bunch of the properties.
The first one that I want to talk to
you about today are some properties that
allow you to control the line height.
I'm going to start by talking
about the minimum line height
and maximum line height property.
The reason I'm talking about
them at the same time is they're
usually set to the same value.
What they're going to control
is they're actually going to
control the line fragment height
that we use to render your text.
And this is going to move the baseline.
We're actually going to adjust
the ascender proportionally
to the value that you give us.
So we're going to move your text.
And you can see an example of where we've
used this in iOS 6 in the Stocks app.
Notice that these cells
are not very tall,
and it would be difficult if we used
the natural line height of the font
to fit all of the text in the cell.
So the Stocks team set up minimum
line height and maximum line height
to a value that was less than the
natural line height of the font,
achieving this effect.
The next value I want
to talk to you about,
or the next property,
is another one that comes to us really
from the world of classical typography,
which is why you can see
a type case next to it.
And it controls the gap between lines.
is a professor at the
University of Michigan.
He's been working on a new
project called Line Spacing.
The reason I talk about
classical typography,
again,
is you have to remember there used to be
thin strips of lead that would separate
the rows of glyphs in the type case,
and this was called leading,
also known as line spacing.
So when you're interacting
with your developer and she
starts going on about leading,
you now know what you need to adjust.
Now,
since we are in the world of computers,
we can actually have
negative line spacing,
which will cause the lines to overlap.
and this value is going to be included
in your line fragment heights.
So, let's see how it works.
We're going to supply a
value of 30 to line spacing,
which is going to give 30
points of vertical distance
between these two lines.
Talking more about spacing,
you can also affect interparagraph
spacing by setting a value
on paragraph spacing.
So you can see in this case,
we've added 30 points of distance
between the two paragraphs.
If you want to affect the amount of
space which precedes the paragraph,
you can set up paragraph spacing before.
Again, in our example,
we've given it a value of 30.
If you want left and
right margin control,
you can use the head and
tail indent properties.
We'll talk about head
indent a little bit.
You can see again we've set up a left
margin of 30 by changing the head
and end value of the paragraph style.
And you can change the right margin
by supplying a value to tail and end.
In this case, it's negative because we're
telling it how many points to
come away from the right margin.
So, Aki talked yesterday a bit about the
Reminders group and some of the stuff
that they did to achieve some of the text
effects in the Reminders application.
If you've used Reminders on iOS 6,
you'll notice that there's
a priority glyph often on
the first line of the text.
The way they achieved this effect,
the way they were able to knock
over that first line of text was
by customizing the first line head
indent property of NSParagraphStyle.
Let's talk a bit about hyphenation.
You can control hyphenation by
customizing the hyphenation factor
property of NS paragraph style.
You can see here in our example,
it's been disabled and we've
supplied a value of zero.
This is the default.
And you can see in our text,
we have a very, very tight bounding box,
which has caused the layout to become,
unfortunately, unbalanced vertically.
So if we supply the value 1,
you'll notice we now break
lengthwise using a hyphen.
This appears to be more
vertically balanced in this case.
So all of these things are very cool,
and you may be asking,
how do I use these guys in my app?
Well, we talked about that a
little bit yesterday.
The whole UI label is
the nexus of power talk.
And that really hasn't changed.
As you can see here,
we have a table view cell with a label,
and this is only one label which
bears an attributed string.
The attributed string is
specifying a bold font for the
word "Appleseed." In the past,
this would have taken two labels
to achieve or some custom drawing,
and it would have been really
difficult to get the spacing between
the N and capital A glyphs correct.
UI Text Field also takes an
attributed string now in the
Attributed Text property.
and even UI TextView takes an attributed
string in the attributed text property
and allows users to interact with the
attributes and customize them themselves.
UI Button can render
an attributed string.
And as you saw yesterday,
Pickerview Caliente has been
enhanced to show attributed strings.
There are a few caveats to remember when
using attributed strings with UIKit.
And Aki talked about
default values yesterday.
UIKit will supply different
default values when you're using
attributed strings with label,
for example.
We're going to specify where you
don't specify an NS font attribute
name with using UI font system
default font size and using the
default font size for the widget.
In this case, in iOS 6,
UI label will specify 17 points.
We're also going to specify
NS foreground color attribute
name where you do not specify one,
and we're going to
supply the black color.
We're also going to turn off kerning.
The rest of the text system
does not use kerning.
The rest of the system
WebKit does not use kerning.
So you should really only use it
in cases where you have like a
designer spec that says you need to
adjust the kerning for your labels.
We're also going to turn off ligatures,
again,
in the aim of achieving system-wide
text rendering consistency.
So let me show you how
all this stuff is used.
You may have seen this table
view very quickly yesterday
during our introductory talk.
I want to show you how we put it
together today and what customizations
we made to achieve these effects.
First off,
I'll show you the fancy header.
You'll notice that we've achieved this
effect by supplying an NS attributed
string instance to the attributed
text property of the text label of
UI table view header footer view,
which is new in iOS 6.
Thanks.
We've also given this a gray drop shadow,
which makes the text appear
to sort of pop off of the
grouped table view background.
Next, you'll notice Twyla Brown's name
would be inappropriately kerned if
we had just let the system render it.
So we've adjusted NSKernAttributeName
by supplying the value null there.
And notice the T and
W glyphs are nicely kerned.
Next, in Susie Griffin's name,
you'll notice we have that
beautiful FFI ligature,
and we've done this by enabling
ligatures in our attributed string.
Continuing on, Aki talked yesterday about
the basic NSStringDrawing API,
the simple methods draw in rect,
draw at point, and size.
Today we're going to talk about the
extended drawing and sizing methods,
draw with rect,
and bounding rect with size.
The extended NSStringDrawing
API is important because it gives
you additional drawing and sizing
capabilities over the simple APIs.
You can specify baseline versus
line fragment origin layouts,
and we're going to talk
more about that later.
And you can also give us a constraining
size by specifying a width and a
height in the rect that you pass to us.
So, let's dive right into
NSStringDrawing options.
If you've ever worked with
NSStringDrawing on the Mac,
you may know a few of these already.
I'll tell you about the ones that we
brought over from the Mac to iOS 6.
I have a few supported values.
The first one is NSStringDrawing
uses line fragment origin.
We also support NSStringDrawing,
Truncate's last visible line.
And NSStringDrawing uses font-letting.
We're not going to talk
much about that today,
but I'm told by my
colleagues that it's very,
very useful when dealing
with Asian fonts.
You can specify multiple options
because these guys are bit masks.
So, for example,
if I want to truncate the last visible
line and use the line fragment origin,
I can just or together and a string
drawing truncates last visible line and a
string drawing uses line fragment origin
and supply that as the options parameter
in my extended string drawing method.
So, let's talk a bit about
line fragment origin.
So, the origin of the rect is going to
determine where rendering begins,
where we're going to start the pen.
So in Draw with Rect,
we're going to take the
Rect origin attribute,
which is a CG point,
and start from there.
But we're going to interpret it
differently based on the flags that you
pass in Anna's string drawing options.
For example, we're going to talk about
baseline rendering first.
This is when the origin
is at the baseline.
You see we have this nice run of text,
and we're taking the origin that
you gave us and considering it to
be at the beginning of the baseline.
This is the default mode for
the extended string drawing API.
And it's usually used with
a single line of text.
and in this case,
NSStringDrawing uses line fragment
origin is not going to be set.
Let's talk about when you do set it,
though.
You can see we have a
couple of lines of text,
a couple of line fragments,
and our origin now is going
to be considered to be at the
upper left of the line fragment.
This is the default
mode for the simple API.
So if you're using the extended
API and you want to make it
behave like the simple API,
you will set this bit.
And this is usually used
with multiple lines of text.
Now, I want to talk about
controlling truncation.
As you can see here,
we have an overly long run of text
that we're attempting to cram into
the bounds of our app's main view.
We can fix this by supplying
the NSStringDrawing Truncate's
last visible line option,
which will do this.
Simple.
Next, I'd like to talk about
something new in iOS 6,
which personally as a text
geek I find rather exciting.
It's the NSStringDrawingContext.
Again, if you've used these
things on the Mac before,
if you've used NSStringDrawing
and attributed strings,
you may have run across
things like LayoutManager.
Well, we don't have LayoutManager
right now on iOS 6,
but this is a great analog for it.
It allows you to specify more
options about how you'd like the
text system to lay out your text,
and it can communicate back to you
what we actually did to lay it out.
So, let's talk about a few of
the properties on this.
First, I'd like to talk about
minimum scale factor.
It tells the text system exactly how
small it can scale all of the fonts
in your attributed string before it
begins to truncate when it's trying
to fit it into the bounding box,
the constraint.
Next,
we have the minimum tracking adjustment,
which tells us exactly how small
we can make all of the tracking,
basically all of the spacing
between your characters,
again before we're going
to begin to truncate.
You don't have to use label
to achieve these effects.
Now I want to talk about
the read-only properties.
This is the way that the text system
can communicate with you and tell
you what it did to render your text.
First, there's the actual scale factor.
You give us a minimum scale factor,
we give you back the actual
scale factor that we supplied
when we were scaling your fonts.
We will tell you the actual
tracking adjustment we used.
And I would say, maybe most importantly,
we'll tell you the total bounds
that were used to render your text.
So, how is this stuff useful?
Well, the scale factor information can
be used to achieve consistent font,
label, sizes, and tracking.
Example here, we have three names:
Johannes, Jacob Appleseed, Twyla Brown,
and Susie Griffin.
Twyla and Susie have very short names,
which easily fit in the balance of
the label that have been supplied.
However, Johannes' name,
while it is a great name,
and I love the name Johannes,
is unfortunately very,
very long and does not easily fit
within the bounds of the given label.
So, what has the text system done?
The text system has shrunk the fonts
to 80% of their original size and
used that to render Johannes' name.
Now, this is fine.
Everything fits.
But now the font sizes are inconsistent.
Let's take that scale factor of 80%
and apply it to the rest of the text.
Since we know what scale factor was used,
we can do this to the other strings,
and then we can achieve this
consistent look to our table view.
So you can see we have a screenshot
from iOS 6's YouTube app.
And I'm going to use this to
talk about one pass layout.
So this is actually
done in our YouTube app.
You can see we have four keyframes,
four descriptions,
four dates that the movies were uploaded,
a number of views,
and because we're Apple,
most importantly, a rating.
How would we lay all of this out?
In the past, well,
you know how big the keyframes are,
but you don't have upfront knowledge
of how big these strings will be.
So you'd probably render the keyframes,
do a bunch of sizing passes
over all of the text,
and then actually draw the text.
You can do this in one pass now
on iOS 6 using the total balance
property of NSStringDrawingContext,
and let me show you how this would work.
So, as I said,
we know the size of the keyframe,
so we can start from there.
We know the maximum vertical extent.
And we can render the runtime.
Now that we know about how big of an
area we have to render the description,
we can render that.
And then we can move the Y coordinate
again to supply the origin for
the date that it was uploaded.
Then, we can render the number of views.
And now that we know just about how
big the entire cell is going to be,
we can drop in the rating.
We know the bounds of the entire cell,
and we can rinse and repeat
for the rest of the UI.
That's one pass layout.
You can do it on iOS 6 with
the total bounds property
of NSStringDrawingContext.
Next, I'd like to tell you about
the concurrency considerations
of NSString drawing.
First, you'll be happy to know,
and as string drawing calls,
are thread safe.
However,
NSStringDrawingContext instances are not.
Don't share these between queues, please.
There could be really interesting
object subgraphs hiding behind an
NSStringDrawingContext which may
not necessarily be thread safe.
Now, to show you how to use all of this
cool new technology in your app,
we've prepared a demo.
And I'd like to introduce my colleague,
Johannes Fortmann,
who's going to show it to you.
Thanks, Ian.
Hi, I'm Johannes Fortmann
from the Yoike team.
And if you've been to
the intro talk yesterday,
you already know our little demo app.
For those of you who haven't been here,
it's an app which renders
pages from various plays.
And you can select a page and,
for example,
learn the text on the bus if you're
an actor or just marvel at the
typography and the beautiful writing.
I'm just going to run this app.
And this is the state we
got this in yesterday.
What we did here,
we have a collection view to
actually show a selection of pages.
And what we did was we switched this
label here to use the attributed
rendering and added a bold font.
And zooming out,
we switched the text rendering.
And we're going to use the
attribute rendering to use beautiful
ligatures like the waffles here.
I don't think he actually says that.
Well, let's go back to this
overview slide here.
And well, you notice this label is while
much more beautiful than it was
yesterday before we started,
it's still kind of
lying flat on the page.
So I want to add a shadow to make
this stand out a little more.
And to do that,
I'm going to Xcode and opening
my page preview cell here.
This is where we are
formatting our label.
We are creating an attributed
string with a red color.
We are looking for the range of our
scene name and setting a bold font.
And then we're finally
setting the attributed title.
To actually set the shadow here,
what we need to do is create one of
these NSShadowValueClass objects.
Now, value class means that we are
only using this to actually
store values like the offset,
the blur radius, or the shadow color.
So what we need to do here is
actually create our shadow object,
set the parameters we want to set.
In my case, I want to set an offset,
and I want to set the blur radius,
change that from the default.
I'm not changing the shadow color.
That's the default of 50% gray,
and I kind of like that color.
The final step I have to do is actually
change my attributes dictionary
to have this shadow color set.
So I'm going to remove this
and replace it by an attributes
dictionary with now two keys,
the red color, foreground color,
and the shadow attribute.
Let's see how that looks.
We see that we now have a really,
really beautiful shadow here.
That looks nice.
And tasteful.
All right.
Let's go back to this rendering here.
Now, if you were in the intro session,
you might still remember
how this rendering works.
We are doing -- we have
our page representation,
which contains several paragraphs.
And we are rendering this paragraph
by paragraph going through the list.
And after each paragraph,
we add up the Y height of the
paragraph to advance our page cursor.
And for that,
we had to do an unfortunate sizing step.
We got the paragraph size and added
it to our remaining page rect.
Now, as Ian just told you,
we can actually use the -- in a
string drawing context to find out
-- -- find out the total bounds
of the paragraph we just rendered.
So we don't have to do the sizing step,
which is very nice,
because that way we don't
actually have to size this,
throw away the layout information,
and then render it and recreate
the layout information.
So let's move this to
use the actual sizing.
And keep in mind how this looks,
because we want to compare afterwards,
of course.
To go to the rendering code,
we open the page view,
and there we have a render
page with size method.
And this is where we do the drawing.
You can see the sizing step
here and the drawing step here.
Instead, we want to create the context
that we are using to render,
which will be filled in by the
rendering step to contain the size.
So I'm creating the context here.
And then all that is left for me
to do is do the actual rendering.
So I can remove this.
and call my rendering method.
Now, you see we're using the line
fragment origin parameter here.
That is because our rendering
is going to start at the current
cursor position downwards.
We don't want to render from our
current cursor position upwards
like having a baseline and having
the glyphs balanced on that.
But rather we want to render
down from the current position.
So we have to use this
line fragment origin.
And of course, afterwards,
we have to still stow
away our paragraph size.
And let's have a look at how that looks.
I hope it still looks the same.
And it actually does.
That is very nice.
Now,
we've also talked about other attributes
like the background selection color.
And to demonstrate that,
I have put in a neat feature here.
I'm going to show you here.
I'm doing a long tap on this.
And you see there's a
little copy pop over here.
I've actually put in a hit testing method
which tests against these paragraphs.
And we can select one
and actually copy it.
But we don't see a selection.
So let's use the background color
attribute to display the selection.
To do that,
I'm going to switch to the page class,
that is my model class,
which contains the paragraphs and the
code to format the attributed string.
Let me switch there.
And we have a method,
attributed string for paragraph,
which we'll use here.
Now, I already have written the
code to actually propagate
the paragraph selection index
down into this page class.
So the only thing I need to do is
actually check if the index of the
paragraph I'm currently rendering,
that's the index of this
paragraph in my paragraphs array,
is equal to the selected paragraph.
And in that case,
I have to format this paragraph properly.
So I'll set the background color.
And because I'm setting a
light blue background color,
I also have to set the
foreground color to match that,
to have proper contrast here.
So I'm also setting the foreground color.
Let's see how that looks.
And now if I select one of these,
you can actually see
which one I'm selecting.
And I can go here and select another one.
And now I know which paragraph I copied.
And you notice how this nicely follows
the actual extents of the text here.
Specifically, we see that it doesn't
go over at the end.
All right.
Now, looking back at this slide,
this page,
we notice that this text seems kind
of -- still seems kind of unbalanced.
That is because our line spacing is,
I think, a bit off.
I don't know what I did there.
But
What we might want to do is adjust
the line spacing here for legibility.
You might also want
to use this if you're,
for example,
printing something to a PDF or so and
want to leave space for commands or...
Well, this case,
improving legibility is a very good idea,
too.
And I've already put in a slider so I can
actually adjust the line spacing here
to see how that would actually look.
But this slider is still nonfunctional.
That's because while I have hooked
that up and propagated my value
down to my paragraph already,
I don't actually adjust the line spacing.
So let's do that.
We're going to do this one.
Now we have to actually do
something clever here because as
you remember from the last session,
we are actually using different
paragraph styles here.
The line spacing is a property
on the paragraph style.
And we are already using
the paragraph style for our
stage directions to create a
We've moved them to center alignment.
Our text, on the other hand,
is using the default paragraph
style with a left alignment,
and we haven't changed that.
Now, having these two different paragraph
styles means that we can't just
smash over a new paragraph style
with the correct line spacing,
minimum and maximum line spacing,
over all of this,
because that would override
our text alignment.
That would be very unfortunate.
So what we have to do is enumerate
the line spacings and modify them.
So I'm going to do an enumeration here.
I'm enumerating the paragraph
style attribute in the whole
range of the text using a block.
And this block gets as its parameters
the current value of the paragraph style,
the range, and a stop point.
And I'm going to do a pointer if
I want to stop this prematurely.
We're not going to do that.
Now, for the default,
we will actually be getting
a value of nil here.
That is because we haven't
actually set a paragraph style.
That means that we have to
take that into consideration.
And I'm going to do that, actually.
So what I'm doing here is I look
if we actually have a value,
in which case we want to do
a mutable copy of this value
to be able to mutate it.
And if we don't have a value,
I want to use a new
mutable paragraph style.
Of course.
The only thing that's left for me to do
is to set my minimum and maximum line
spacing on this paragraph style and then
apply it back to my attributed string.
That is it.
Let's see how that works and
if we can figure out a better
value for our line spacing.
and now our slider adjusts our line
spacing so we can see the value of
31 seems to be pretty good here.
Let's have a look at this
overview page here for a minute.
We are currently rendering these pages
Loading them from disk and then
immediately rendering them.
And that's pretty quick.
It's certainly fast enough for this demo.
And it's actually -- the text
rendering system is very fast.
So there aren't any problems here.
But you might imagine situations
where the text you want to render
is coming from the network.
It might be a whole lot of tweets,
for example, that you get from Twitter.
And those might be coming
in one after the other.
And for making your app really
responsive and awesome so
your customers will love it,
you want to --
Offload this loading from the
network to a background queue.
If you've seen the concurrency
in iOS talk yesterday,
you already know how to do that properly.
And as Ian told you,
the rendering here is
actually thread safe.
So apart from just loading these
tweets or whatever you are rendering
from the network in the background,
you can also render
them in the background.
And I want to move our rendering
code to the background queue
now to show you how that goes.
Our rendering code for this overview
lives in the page preview cell.
And I'm going to pull that up.
This is actually here
the whole rendering code.
I'm going to emphasize
this so you can see it.
And what we're doing here is
we're rendering the page preview.
and setting it on our
current preview cell.
Now, parts of this are able to
be moved in the background,
specifically the rendering.
Parts of this aren't.
We cannot interact with UIKit controls,
with view instances from
the background queue.
That would be fatal and
a very bad idea to do.
So what we have to do is first dispatch
this rendering to the background.
So I'm going to dispatch
this on dispatch queue.
You could also, of course,
use an NS operation queue for this.
And now if we look at this render call,
you'll notice we're calling
this on the page view.
So this is a class method.
We're not interacting with any page
view instance because that would be an
interaction with the UIKit control and,
as I said, not a good idea.
But we're still sizing this up
by calling this getter here.
We're getting the frame size.
We cannot do that in the background,
but luckily that's also
a very fast operation.
So we can just do that here
in the foreground before
we dispatch asynchronously.
Now that we have this page size,
we want to render in the background.
And then we want to set this,
but that again is an interaction
with UIKit proper with a view.
And so we have to dispatch
that to the foreground queue,
the main queue.
So I'm dispatching
this to the main queue.
And there I'm setting my image.
These can go now because we actually
have accomplished our to-do.
So let's look at how that looks.
And as you can see here, well,
you can see nothing because
this was already fast.
It wouldn't have been a good
demo if I hadn't made it fast
enough to be actually responsive.
So to show you how this might look
if we actually have a long-running
operation like a lengthy computation
or fetch from the network,
I'm going to just put in a
method call here that does some
work that takes really long.
And after I do that,
you can see these renderings
fade in one after the other,
rendered on the background,
and our app is still responsive.
[Transcript missing]
Now, you've seen how to use the advanced
text rendering attributes to
convey things like the emphasis
we used for the selection,
but also to beautify your app.
We've used the shadow to
make our label stand out.
You've seen how to use the paragraph
style advanced attributes like
minimum and maximum line height
to make your text more legible.
In this case,
we've spaced out our lines to make
the page on the whole look more
balanced and to be able to quickly
distinguish between these lines.
And you've seen how to move
things to the background queue.
Now in moving this to
the background queue,
we've only used text rendering
system and UI image to actually
pass the rendered stuff back.
And let me emphasize this again.
You should not manipulate UI elements
from the background queue.
That is a really, really bad idea.
You should render in the background,
and after you've done your rendering,
pass the rendered image back to the
main queue and set your image there.
And with that,
I'd like to give back to Ian.
Thanks.
Thank you, Johannes.
We've talked about a lot of things today.
First, we talked about some of
the advanced attributes.
We talked about how to apply
outlines or strokes to your text.
We talked about drop shadows.
We talked about kerning
and ligature adjustments.
And we talked about some of
the cool things you can do with
NS paragraph style customizations.
Then we talked about how to use
these text effects in your app.
We talked about customizing
table view headers.
table view cells.
And then we talked about the
extended string drawing API.
We introduced you to the notion
of NSStringDrawingContext,
which is new in iOS 6 and
exclusive currently to iOS 6.
And we also talked about
NSStringDrawingOptions.
If you still need more information,
you can talk to our evangelist,
Jake Behrens,
or go look at the UIKit framework
documentation online.
Finally, if you haven't been to the
Apple Developer Forums,
I would urge you to go
there today and sign up.
You can give and receive
peer-to-peer support,
as well as interact with
employees like myself,
Johannes, and Aki.
There are some related sessions.
We have our Introduction to
Attributed Strings for iOS talk.
If you missed that,
I urge you to watch that.
Aki's going to show you how to create,
modify, and replace attributes
in attributed strings,
as well as draw them to the screen
using the simple NSStringDrawing API.
There was a great Core Text and Fonts
session yesterday that you should
definitely catch if you're interested
in knowing more about Core Text.
And then there was the Keyboard
Input and Output session.
There was a Keyboard Input and Output
session yesterday that you should
definitely catch if you're interested
in knowing more about Core Text.
input in iOS talk which will tell
you more about how to interact
with UI text field and UI text view
with respect to attributed strings.